Tab 1

For computing the code, there are some important points:
1.​ For the detector, the maximum is about 3.5 V_out (3.36ish)
2.​ Polarization can cause bumps next to the main peak. Slow basically there might be a slow
axis and a fast axis, and not going into details, if you have a difference in time you will
have a difference in frequency. (polarization is caused by the plates), if you see two
peaks, you might want to change the plates just a bit (if the second peak is larger than half
or too high) BUT ONLY MOVE THE POLARIZATION CONTROLLER AFTER THE
MODULATOR. And keep the second two aligned and the first one you can move as you
want. (you only want linear state of polarization)
3.​ You want skinny thinner peaks
4.​ Start with a large resolution (MAKE SURE TO HAVE A BLACK BOX BECAUSE OF
TEMPERATURE FLUX IN ROOM!!!) with coarse intervals and then make a smaller
interval with finer intervals. It's O(n).
5.​ He will give me a video explaining stuff.
6.​ So in order to bring the laser outside of the control of the computer, we can press on the
local mode button, which lets you control it from the device directly. There is also the
active button, which means that the light is currently in the fiber. If you press it, then the
green light is off, which means the laser isn’t on. Now you press on the edit button, but
there are two things you can edit (wl and power), but edit the one in blue which is the
wavelength. And then you can adjust with the wheel or the button, but the button is more
precise. If you are in the PM or 10th of PM level (two last digits), you ONLY GO UP.
7.​ Then we do the lock thing, which tracks to the right wavelength but the amount of power.
Once you adjust it to the right wavelength, then you put it into this thing:

8.​ Ok then you lock the output button after connecting all the wires (and making sure that it
also outputs to the computer cus like we need to log the data
9.​ Again, make sure that you have both boxes now on top of the FBG in order to decrease
the amount of temperature fluctuations

10.​Depending on which side of the peak, you might need to change the sign of the PID. (this
does all the computations to say where you should stay). But the ones that are on is the P
and I (sometimes we will need to change the sign of the P) (like if it’s on the left side and
tries to go down then that’s not good)
11.​What does the LIA do? The LIA just says “the peak shifted by that much”, and it gives
the information to the PID, which tells the laser what to add to its wavelength, and this
becomes a loop, and they all talk to each other. The PID goal wants to put the value on
the LIA zero. (the LEFT one wants to go to zero on the LIA), the middle is the
accumulated tuning (for example if the peak is somewhere, and the temperature drops by
1 degree, then the peak shifts left, so this just demonstrated the difference)***

***we can convert the volts into a temperature difference:

1.​ There are two important codes
a.​ laser_sweep_LIA_DAQ.m, this is used for the laser sweep, this is used in order to
find the proper wavelength in which to lock, and then you lock.
b.​ temperatureMeasurement_LISA_DAQ_TRCL_saveBin_60s_algo_fiber_ampl.m,
this will measure the temperature as a function of time, when it is locked. And
this one turns on the pump laser. For example, in training we did it with a pump of
0 mW:

2.​ Now we will put on the pump to a certain current
a.​ The pump laser doesn’t know how much power it outputs so we have to use a
reader and can’t specify this, we can only specify the amount of current
b.​ Make sure to set this to 100 mW or an appropriate range and then zero it when the
laser is off. But if it is close to 100 mW, adapt it to the next scale. Then we will
have to remeasure the amount of power from each current and then you tell the
code what the power was. But you need to change it manually since it can’t be
connected to the computer which sucks, and then you use a watch stopwatch or
phone. Ten seconds of no power and then after another 20 you turn off again. And
then wait 20. You have to use your stopwatch and start at the same time as the
code, and then read the power at 26. And then you can have a two column like
note with the pump current vs pump power.
c.​ Then the code will compute the temperature change (average between 20 and 30
seconds and you compare it with the pump power that you got)

​
​
​
Now we change to 0.6 for the current, then 0.8, etc etc etc. I will add some
pictures of like good/bad data for referenced, but note that this data should be
inversed from what we got (since hotter vs colder)

Also like one of the lasers only goes up to 1.6 A so we have to use the other one

Note that the tunable laser also requires a passcode which is just “1234”

theory

locking

Ok so here are the steps for adjusting the wavelength:
1.​ First you want to have the following setup:

This should be set to 30 Mhz and 6 V, and the cord should connect to the right side of the LIA

This should be connected in this fashion.
Lastly, the settings should be similar to this, and just adjust the settings as you go on.

Here are a series of photos (after adjustments)

Now which one should we choose? It seems like the first one, but after increasing the resolution
we find that the second one is better:

Now we need to adjust the cables:

Now make sure that the Optical Power Meter is maximized, after putting it in manual mode, and
then lock it!

7/8

Ok so there is an issue with the power output in the laser:
If we look at the current setup:

After measuring the light coming out of the APC connector, it is noted that the radius of the light
is very wide on the infrared sensor card. There is also less power than expected. I redid the splice
a couple of days ago with simon and got a lot more power output there, and it worked with a
shorter test cord but as soon as I tried connecting it to the fiber I’m going to use in my
experiment it broke again. Here’s some data that I collected:
I only got 68 mW of power this time, which is concerning.
Also the light is very very scattered when I hold it to the paper:

Now I’m going to cut the fiber right after the splice, since I assume that the connector got
damaged. Yes I replaced it and now it read over 300 mW and is much better and looks gaussian.
Now I moved it back to 40mW. See the interesting thing is that when I connected it to the apc

connector on the fiber to be irradiated it broke again. Maybe light was reflected back up which
caused it to break again? Who knows.
Anyways so I’ve respliced it for a second time. So let me try to splice it to another pigtail. : (
And then I will do the same ig. And if it doesn’t work well then idk.
This is before I respliced it though:
(it read about 48mW)
(the first image is the straight fiber before the splice and the second image is when I bent it to try
to see if there was a breakage in the fiber)

When I bent it it read even higher at 55.6 mW.

Keep in mind both of these are giving me the same amount of power, which is around 48 mW. I
will test the distance though, while curling and not curling (left and right):​

7/9

Today is a continuation of yesterday in a sense. My goal is at least to finish testing for the second
fiber and to fix all of the power issues.
I just retested the fiber that connects to the Isolator and it has a normal distribution and good
centering for the light, along with a strong amount of power (~50 mW) for ~0.4 A. Now I’m
planning on splicing it because I want to see if the connector is the problem. If the connector
isn’t the problem then I’m going to splice a new connector for the fiber that is to be irradiated.
Here’s a picture of the new splice with the old connector.

If we turn on the pump @ 0.4 A…
It worked, which is absolute bonkers to me lmao.

Ok I just connected it and it works, which is awesome. Now I’m going to splice them together. If
something goes wrong, that means there is probably a defect in the fiber to be irradiated.

Ok wow it worked. Here some pictures. Now my last concern is that putting it in the thing (like
the holder thing will somehow break it but this is unlikely). Here are more documenting pictures.

Now time to plug it in:
And it worked!!!! Yay!
Now I’m going to lock:

Ended up unlocking and then relocking after I got some stuff to eat since I hadn’t eaten yet today.
- 4:39 pm rn and I’m locking again.

Now I’m doing some tests with 0 pump power and here are some pictures : )

Now let’s do some with 40,41,... yippee

Here’s some pictures at 0.4 A vs 0.55 A, little difference means low background absorption : D

Ok this fiber was very very good. I realized since it had such a low absorption, this means that
there was so much noise when it was at low power. My R^2 was at 0.93 when I stopped art
around 310 mW and then is now at 0.97 when I’m at 435 mW. Here’s how it looks rn : D

The slope is like twice as good as Bastien’s 2 years ago lmao. Very satisfying after it literally not
working.
Added some more points…

Actually here’s a picture of what it looked like a while ago:

Final graph:

7/10

Ok I’m back in the lab again today. I’m going to measure the length of the fibers so that I can
find out how much power is dissipated along a certain section of the wire. These lengths will be
available on my spreadsheet. Nvm i’m just gonna wrzap

7/15

Here is some data that I collected vs old data. I think that the old power meter wasn’t as
sensitive as the new one so it didn’t accurately catch the amount of power that was going
through the fiber:
Here is the old vs new SG1744L fiber:

Here is a comparison of the temperature difference when at the same amount of pump current,
which is pretty similar:

Here is the old vs new for the MS30A1 fiber:

Here is a comparison of the temperature difference when at the same amount of pump current,
which is pretty similar:

7/17

So basically I need to see how sensitive the photodetectors are because the data I got on the
MS30A1 fiber (on photodetector 1 vs photodetector 2) is a lot different. If I compare the data
that I get on P_out vs I on the MS30A1 fiber, I get a ratio of slopes that is equal to
1.94647965811. Now we can compare the normalized graph vs the initial readings.

However, the ratio for the SG1744L, which should be about the same, was different. This is
interesting. I’m thinking it might be because of a slight difference in set-up for one of the
photodetectors. Tomorrow I’m going to gather data on how the spatial location impacts the
reading of the second photodetector, and possibly the first one as well. For this fiber I got a ratio
of 1.43567658. Interestingly, when we renormalize it with this value, the slopes are very similar:

Now we will do the same comparisons for the SG1744L fiber:

